.TH "hsh" "1" "November 25th, 2020"

.SH NAME
hsh




.SH SYNOPSIS



.SH DESCRIPTION
The sh utility is a command language interpreter that shall execute commands read from a command line string, the standard input, or a specified file.



.SH OPERANDS

.IP argument

The positional parameters ($1, $2, and so on) shall be set to arguments, if any.

.IP command_file

The pathname of a file containing commands. If the pathname contains one or more <slash> characters, the implementation attempts to read that file; the file need not be executable. If the pathname does not contain a <slash> character:

*  The implementation shall attempt to read that file from the current working directory; the file need not be executable.

*  If the file is not in the current working directory, the implementation may perform a search for an executable file using the value of PATH


.B Conversion specifiers


A character that specifies the type of conversion to be applied. The main conversion specifiers and their meanings are:


.IP d,i
The int argument is converted to signed decimal notation. '%d' prints a decimal (base 10) number and '%i' prints an integer in base 10.


.IP o,u,x,X
The unsigned int argument is converted to unsigned octal (o), unsigned decimal (u), or unsigned hexadecimal (x and X) notation.


.IP c
It prints a single character. The int argument is converted to an unsigned char, and the resulting character is written.


.IP s
It prints a string of characters. The const char * argument is expected to be a pointer to an array of character type (pointer to a string). Characters from the array are written up to (but not including) a terminating null byte ('\0').

.IP %
A percent sign ('%') is written. No argument is converted. The complete conversion specification is '%%'.




.SH RETURN VALUE


Upon successful return, this function returns the number of characters printed (excluding the null byte used to end output to strings).


If an output error is encountered, a negative value is returned.




.SH EXAMPLE


.IP Output:


Characters: a A


Decimal: 1977


A string




.SH AUTHORS


Written by Hugo Gómez & Nicolás Portela.